README.md, before:

<h1 align="center">Hi, I'm Suyash 👋</h1>

<p align="center">
  <strong>CS @ UC Irvine</strong> · AI &amp; ML · Information Retrieval · Systems
</p>

<p align="center">
  <a href="mailto:suyashj@uci.edu">Email</a> ·
  <a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/jain-suyash/">LinkedIn</a> ·
  <a href="https://jain-suyash.vercel.app" target="_blank">Portfolio</a> ·
  <a href="https://github.com/suyashj1231">GitHub</a>
</p>

---

## ⚡ GitHub Stats



<p align="center">
  <img
    src="https://github-readme-stats-xi-liart.vercel.app/api?username=suyashj1231&show_icons=true&include_all_commits=true&count_private=true&theme=transparent&rank_icon=github&bg_color=00000000&title_color=58a6ff&text_color=c9d1d9&icon_color=58a6ff&border_color=30363d&hide=contribs"
    alt="Suyash's GitHub stats"
    height="165"
  />
  <img
    src="https://github-readme-stats-xi-liart.vercel.app/api/top-langs/?username=suyashj1231&layout=donut&theme=transparent&hide_border=true&langs_count=5&bg_color=00000000&title_color=58a6ff&text_color=c9d1d9&hide=jupyter%20notebook,html,css"
    alt="Top languages"
    height="165"
  />
</p>

---

## 👨‍💻 About Me

- CS undergrad at UC Irvine focused on **machine learning**, **information retrieval**, and **distributed systems**
- Interested in ranking/search, evaluation metrics, and building reliable, scalable infrastructure
- Actively building a portfolio geared toward research‑oriented SWE / ML roles and future graduate study

---

## 🛠 Tech Stack

**Languages**

- Python · C++ · JavaScript/TypeScript · Java · SQL

**Core Areas**

- Machine Learning &amp; MLOps  
- Information Retrieval &amp; search systems  
- Backend &amp; distributed systems  
- Systems design, performance, and observability  

**Tools &amp; Frameworks**

- PyTorch, scikit‑learn, JAX (if applicable)  
- Node.js, Express, React/Next.js  
- PostgreSQL, Redis  
- Docker, Linux, Git, GitHub Actions, Vercel, AWS (where relevant)

---

## 🚀 Featured Projects

### 🔎 [Project A – IR / Search](https://github.com/your-repo-here)
Short, impact‑focused line about what this system does (e.g., “built a search engine over X documents with BM25 + learning‑to‑rank”).  
- Designed indexing and ranking pipeline; implemented query latency optimizations  
- Evaluated quality using IR metrics such as precision, recall, and nDCG

### 🤖 [Project B – ML / Modeling](https://github.com/your-repo-here)
Brief description (e.g., “trained and deployed an ML model for Y using real‑world data”).  
- Implemented data preprocessing, model training, and experiment tracking  
- Deployed an inference API and monitored performance

### 🏗️ [Project C – Systems / Infra](https://github.com/your-repo-here)
Brief description (e.g., “event‑driven system for Z with robust observability”).  
- Focus on architecture decisions, reliability, and throughput/latency numbers  
- Added logging/metrics and automated testing/CI

---

## 🧪 Experience

- **Research Assistant – UC Irvine**  
  Worked on problems at the intersection of ML and systems; contributed to experimental design, implementation, and analysis.

- **Tech Director – Student Organization**  
  Led the redesign of the ticketing and workflow system; owned architecture, performance tuning, and developer experience.

- **Software Engineering Intern – IIITDMJ**  
  Contributed to full‑stack features, debugging, and code quality improvements.

---

## 📚 Currently

- Deepening knowledge of IR (ranking, evaluation, learning‑to‑rank) and advanced ML  
- Practicing system design and low‑level performance work  
- Exploring topics and projects that can mature into research or publication‑worthy work

---

## 🤝 Let’s Connect

- Open to: research collaborations, infra/ML‑heavy SWE internships, and IR / search‑focused projects  
- Best ways to reach me: email or LinkedIn (links above)  

If you liked any of my work, a ⭐ on the corresponding repo is always appreciated!

Commit message:

Revise featured projects section in README
Updated project descriptions and added new project details.

README.md, after:

<h1 align="center">Hi, I'm Suyash 👋</h1>

<p align="center">
  <strong>CS @ UC Irvine</strong> · AI &amp; ML · Information Retrieval · Systems
</p>

<p align="center">
  <a href="mailto:suyashj@uci.edu">Email</a> ·
  <a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/jain-suyash/">LinkedIn</a> ·
  <a href="https://jain-suyash.vercel.app" target="_blank">Portfolio</a> ·
  <a href="https://github.com/suyashj1231">GitHub</a>
</p>

---

## ⚡ GitHub Stats



<p align="center">
  <img
    src="https://github-readme-stats-xi-liart.vercel.app/api?username=suyashj1231&show_icons=true&include_all_commits=true&count_private=true&theme=transparent&rank_icon=github&bg_color=00000000&title_color=58a6ff&text_color=c9d1d9&icon_color=58a6ff&border_color=30363d&hide=contribs"
    alt="Suyash's GitHub stats"
    height="165"
  />
  <img
    src="https://github-readme-stats-xi-liart.vercel.app/api/top-langs/?username=suyashj1231&layout=donut&theme=transparent&hide_border=true&langs_count=5&bg_color=00000000&title_color=58a6ff&text_color=c9d1d9&hide=jupyter%20notebook,html,css"
    alt="Top languages"
    height="165"
  />
</p>

---

## 👨‍💻 About Me

- CS undergrad at UC Irvine focused on **machine learning**, **information retrieval**, and **distributed systems**
- Interested in ranking/search, evaluation metrics, and building reliable, scalable infrastructure
- Actively building a portfolio geared toward research‑oriented SWE / ML roles and future graduate study

---

## 🛠 Tech Stack

**Languages**

- Python · C++ · JavaScript/TypeScript · Java · SQL

**Core Areas**

- Machine Learning &amp; MLOps  
- Information Retrieval &amp; search systems  
- Backend &amp; distributed systems  
- Systems design, performance, and observability  

**Tools &amp; Frameworks**

- PyTorch, scikit‑learn, JAX (if applicable)  
- Node.js, Express, React/Next.js  
- PostgreSQL, Redis  
- Docker, Linux, Git, GitHub Actions, Vercel, AWS (where relevant)

---

## 🚀 Featured Projects

## 🚀 Featured Projects

### 🔎 Web Search Engine – Information Retrieval, Elasticsearch

- Developed a search engine from scratch, indexing 50,000+ documents with an inverted index and on‑disk partial indexing (3‑phase merge) to keep memory usage bounded while maintaining query latency under 300 ms without external libraries.  
- Implemented core IR techniques including TF‑IDF ranking, Boolean retrieval, Porter stemming, and tokenization, and boosted relevance using PageRank, HITS, and anchor‑text indexing for more precise ranking.  
- 🔗 GitHub: [link here]

### 🖥️ OpenGL‑Based Terminal Emulator – GLAD, GLFW, FreeType (UNIX/Linux)

- Built a GPU‑accelerated terminal achieving 460 FPS on large text screens, reducing frame draw time to 2 ms and freeing over 80% of CPU resources for parallel workloads.  
- Delivered roughly 50% faster text output on datasets exceeding 700K lines, with smoother scrolling, lower input latency, and reduced system load compared to CPU‑rendered terminals.  
- 🔗 GitHub: [link here]


---

## 🧪 Experience

- **Research Assistant – UC Irvine**  
  Worked on problems at the intersection of ML and systems; contributed to experimental design, implementation, and analysis.

- **Tech Director – Student Organization**  
  Led the redesign of the ticketing and workflow system; owned architecture, performance tuning, and developer experience.

- **Software Engineering Intern – IIITDMJ**  
  Contributed to full‑stack features, debugging, and code quality improvements.

---

## 📚 Currently

- Deepening knowledge of IR (ranking, evaluation, learning‑to‑rank) and advanced ML  
- Practicing system design and low‑level performance work  
- Exploring topics and projects that can mature into research or publication‑worthy work

---

## 🤝 Let’s Connect

- Open to: research collaborations, infra/ML‑heavy SWE internships, and IR / search‑focused projects  
- Best ways to reach me: email or LinkedIn (links above)  

If you liked any of my work, a ⭐ on the corresponding repo is always appreciated!
